Add documentation for new OPA plugin (#2773)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/_hub/kong-inc/opa/index.md

---

## Usage

### Set up an OPA server

If you are not already running an OPA server, start one by following instructions
on [openpolicyagent.org](https://openpolicyagent.org).

### Set up a dummy policy

Create an `example.rego` file with the following content:

```rego
package example

default allow = false

allowBoolean {
  header_present
}

header_present {
  input.request.http.headers["my-secret-header"] == "open-sesame"
}

allowDetailed = response {
  header_present
  response := {
    "allow": true,
    "headers": {
      "header-from-opa": "accepted",
    },
  }
}

allowDetailed = response {
  not header_present
  response := {
    "allow": false,
    "status": 418,
    "headers": {
      "header-from-opa": "rejected",
    },
  }
}
```

This policy allows the request to pass through if it contains the HTTP header
`my-secret-header` with value `open-sesame`.

Next, configure the policy with OPA:

```bash
curl -XPUT localhost:8181/v1/policies/example --data-binary @example.rego
```

The above command uses OPA's default port 8181. It could be different for your
setup.

### Set up Kong

> Set up a Route and Service in Kong and then enable the plugin:

Author: This topic uses "Kong" a lot when it means "Kong Gateway". I'd update every instance of Kong to switch to Kong Gateway - we're not very consistent about this, but we shouldn't contribute to it.

Reviewer: > This topic uses "Kong" a lot when it means "Kong Gateway". I'd update every instance of Kong to switch to Kong Gateway - we're not very consistent about this, but we shouldn't contribute to it.

I think we need some shorter variables like KGE for Kong Gateway Enterprise.

```bash
curl -X POST http://<admin-hostname>:8001/routes/<route>/plugins \
    --data "name=opa"  \
    --data "config.opa_path=/v1/data/example/allow" \
    --data "config.opa_host=<host-where-opa is running>"
```

### Make a request

Now, make a request to Kong:

```bash
curl http://kong:8000/{proxy_path}
```

You will get a 403 response from Kong because OPA has rejected the request.

Next, make the same request providing the necessary header:

```bash
curl http://kong:8000/{proxy_path} \
  -H 'my-secret-header: open-sesame'
```

This time you will get the response from your upstream service, as this request
is allowed by OPA.

Next, update the plugin configuration to use `/v1/data/example/allowDetailed` as
`opa_path` and observe how the policy affects the response and proxied request.

## OPA input structure

The input to OPA has the following JSON structure:

> ```json:

Author: This codeblock is extremely difficult to read in the output. I'd take the comments out and put them in a list after the codeblock.

Reviewer: > This codeblock is extremely difficult to read in the output. I'd take the comments out and put them in a list after the codeblock.

@lena-larionova I don't think they are difficult to read in the output, but for GA, this would be a great opportunity to use the numbered code blocks and move the comments to a table underneath.  cc: @hbagdi

Reviewer 2: Removing the `json` from the codeblock markdown definition might make the rendering better. The comments are contextual and make it easier for the reader to grasp the entire JSON as a whole.

Doing as a list below a codeblock is fine too but my personal preference is what we have.

Author: Bleh. Harry's right - removing the `json` class from the codeblock will be better; right now, the output looks horrible:
![Screen Shot 2021-04-13 at 10 21 46 AM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/54370747/114594409-13451080-9c42-11eb-9697-0b5e30e48551.png)

> ```json:

Author: ```suggestion
```json
```

      "id": "bc6d8617-76a7-441f-aa40-32eb1f5be9e6",
      "paths": [
        "\\/"
      ],
      "protocols": [
        "http",
        "https"
      ],
      "strip_path": true,
      "created_at": 1612819949,
      "ws_id": "d6020dc4-67f5-4c62-8b45-e2f497c20f5c",
      "request_buffering": true,
      "updated_at": 1612819949,
      "preserve_host": false,
      "regex_priority": 0,
      "response_buffering": true,
      "https_redirect_status_code": 426,
      "path_handling": "v0",
      "service": {
        "id": "e6fd8b19-89e5-44e6-8a2a-79e8bf3c31a5"
      }
    },
    "consumer": {            # Kong consumer that was used for authentication for this request. Injected only if `include_consumer_in_opa_input` is set to `true`.
      "id": "bc6d8617-76a7-431f-aa40-32eb1f5be7e6",
      "username": "kong-consumer-username"
    }
  }
}

```

> Please note that it is possible that Consumer and Service resources are not present for any given request in Kong.

## Expected response from OPA

Once OPA is done executing policies, the plugin expects the policy evaluation

> result in one of the two defined formats. Any other format will result in the

Author: ```suggestion
result in one of the two defined formats: boolean or object. Any other format will result in the
```

plugin returning a `500 Internal Server Error` to the client.
If the HTTP status code of the response from OPA is not `200 OK`, then it is

> treated as an error, which results in a `500 Internal Server Error` to the client.

Author: Starting from "Any other format" and to the end of the paragraph, this section repeats itself. If what this is trying to say is: correct format matching one of two options = `200 OK`, wrong format = `500 Internal Server Error`, then there must be a more concise way to say it.

Reviewer: > Starting from "Any other format" and to the end of the paragraph, this section repeats itself. If what this is trying to say is: correct format matching one of two options = `200 OK`, wrong format = `500 Internal Server Error`, then there must be a more concise way to say it.

@lena-larionova made an attempt in commit e7fb114. You and @hbagdi please review.

Author: Looks great, thanks!

### Boolean result

OPA can return a `true` or `false` result after a policy evaluation.
This should suffice for most use cases.

Examples:

To allow the request to be processed further, OPA should send the following
response:

```json
{
  "result": true
}
```

To deny the request and terminate its processing, OPA should send the following
response:

```json
{
  "result": false
}
```

Any other fields in the response in this case are ignored.

### Object result

In this case, OPA returns an object instead of a boolean result. This
allows for injecting custom HTTP headers as well as changing the HTTP status code
for rejected requests.

The plugin expects the following structure in the OPA response in this case:

```json
{
  "result": {
    "allow": <boolean>,

>     "status: <HTTP status code>,

Author: ```suggestion
    "status": <HTTP status code>,
```

    "headers": {
      "<key>": "<value>",
      "<key2>": "<value2>"
    }
  }
}
```

> The only required field in this response is `result.allow` and it must be a
> `boolean`, or else the plugin will error out.

Author: ```suggestion
The only required field in this response is `result.allow`, which accepts a
`boolean` value.
```
Saying something like "or else this will fail" is really unnecessary - this is implied by the construction. Otherwise, we'd be saying "or else failure" everywhere that we define required parameters.
